# Earth Points

### Modernizing the transporation industry 
Earth Point's goal is to make transportation cheap, effective, and accesible to everyone regardless of their economic background or environment. We provide our users with a mapping app that not only shows them to get from point A to point B in an effective manner, but also shows them relevant transporation methods such as ride-share, buses, trains, and scooters. Furthermore, users have a compilation of different transportation methods at their service such as the price, time, and environmental friendliness. Our innovative public transporation tracker will allow users to see an estimate of where a bus or train may be at any given point in time and when it will reach its next stop. We have two main goals: first, we hope to provide users with an effective application that will drastically reduce the amount of work that they have to do when planning a trip or going somewhere in an urban setting. Second, on a larger scale, we hope to revolutionize the public transporation industry in the United States by updating the outdated technological infrastructure around it and making it more accesible for users.
### Problem Statement
We fundamentally believe that there is a vast disparity between in the United States and other devloped countries in transporation and navigation. Individuals in the United States use more cars per capita than their counterparts in Europe or Canada and thus contribute to gas emissions/global warming. We hope to reduce this updating the technoology surrounding public transporation. When we interviewed indiviudals who regularly used public transporation in the United States, they regularly cited inefficiency and a lack of reliabiltiy as their main criticsms of the public transporation system. This further highlighted a problem of equity: indiviudals who are dependent on public transporation(a significant proportion of whom are lower income) are at a disadvantage compared to those who are not. By creating this app, we hope to not only make public transporation a more viable option(thus reducing the carbon footprint caused by vehicles) but also enable users of all backgrounds to use transportation methods that best suit their needs.
### Demo images and future plans
Below you will find several images that detail what we have so far. First, you will see an image of a map detailing a route from the Hartsfield-International-Airport to the Georgia Aquarium. Second, you will see a detailed account of our app ranks different services based on their environmental friendliness and carbon footprint. Third, you will see an example of pricing for a transportation option. Finally, you will see our innovative tracker for public transportation systems(this specific example uses the MARTA Red Line). In the future(if we get funding), we hope to make our mapping application more useful by introducing a voice to read directions, a better compilation of transportation data, and partnerships with local transportation services to where handlers can directly update users through the tracker.
